>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And I
think many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
We've got an exciting
program for you
as we talk with a paranormal
researcher and author
of the unexplained, Chad Lewis.
Chad, 18 books on the unusual,
the paranormal creatures?
That's amazing!
>>CHAD LEWIS: Anything
that's bizarre and unusual,
I've traveled the
world in search of it.
And oftentimes, these encounter
not only in your back yard,
but around the world.
And the reason why I
write about them is I
want people not only
to read about them,
listen, watch them, but then
go explore for themselves.
>>NOORY: How did Chad Lewis
get interested in these things?
>>LEWIS: I blame it on my
home state of Wisconsin.
We have three UFO capitals
of the world in my State,
and I grew up near one of them.
So when I was in high school
I went and interviewed
people who were seeing UFOs.
And then I started studying
psychology at University
of Wisconsin-Stout--
>>NOORY: Good school.
>>LEWIS: --and I started
presenting on human belief
systems and human perception.
Why do some people believe
in the weird and unusual
and others do not?
And it was really boring
statistical presentation.
You're glad you
weren't there, George.
But people in the audience
would come up and say,
I need your help.
I think my home's haunted,
or I saw something
in the woods I can't explain.
Could you help me investigate?
And it continued through
my graduate studies
and just kind of
spiralled from there.
>>NOORY: Now it's avocation
full-time, isn't it?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
I travel the world in search of
anything out of the ordinary.
Monsters, crop circles, UFOs,
out of body experiences,
ghosts, abductions.
You name it.
If it's weird, the stranger
it is, the more likely
you'll find me there.
>>NOORY: Chad, what
does this tell you
about what's out there, when we
have so many different stories?
Like you just mentioned, UFOs,
ghosts, strange creatures.
What the heck's
happening on this planet?
>>LEWIS: There seems to
be so much more going on
than we could ever
imagine-- as you
said, that laundry
list of things
that people are experiencing.
And I think people have
been experiencing it
since the beginning of time,
but as we progress now,
it's getting more and more
easier to come out with it.
That years ago nobody
wanted to report
a UFO because your neighbors
thought you were crazy.
>>NOORY: But pilots
definitely didn't want to.
>>LEWIS: Yeah,
they'd be grounded
until they could undergo
a psychiatric evaluation.
But now, not only
are people more
willing to talk about
their experiences,
they're finding that others
have had similar things, too.
>>NOORY: What are
your favorite stories?
What are your favorite
episodes of the paranormal?
>>LEWIS: I like
monsters, of course.
Mysterious creatures.
Creatures that science says,
tell us shouldn't exist.
Skeptics say they can exist.
Yet every year,
thousands of people
are coming faced to--
well, not really faced
with these monsters.
And I love stories with
unsuspecting witnesses.
Not people that are out there
looking for these things
and then they find them.
You know the old
saying, when the weird
comes looking for you when
you go looking for the weird.
But people that may
not even believe
in the strange and
unusual, but they've
had an experience that
they just can't explain.
>>NOORY: Creatures.
Let's spend some time
talking about them.
You've written a number
of books about them.
What are we talking about
in terms of creatures?
Loch Ness monster?
Bigfoot?
What else is out there?
>>LEWIS: Of course we have the
big ones, as you mentioned.
And then there's the whole host,
the variety of other creatures.
Everything from Central and
South American creatures
of the Tata Duende,
El Chupacabra.
And then you have North
American creatures
of the vampire stories.
>>NOORY: thunderbirds, right?
>>LEWIS: thunderbirds.
The Native Americans
believed in these giant birds
that would darken the
sky as they flew over.
And we think of these as old
Native American superstitions.
But it only happens
when people nowadays
have experiences
with them that we
think maybe these stories
have progressed on.
But here in the
United States we have
a plethora of these monsters.
Werewolves, phantom
animals, the Wendigo.
All these legends that have
been here with the natives
or that have come
over with our--
>>NOORY: Mothman--
>>LEWIS: --ancestors.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: --he's included too.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, These
giant bat-like creatures.
>>NOORY: And you've
looked at, investigated
all these different
kinds of stories?
>>LEWIS: Well, I think
in order to really
get deep into these
stories you have to go
to where the stories occur.
That you have to go there
and interview witnesses
and walk in the area
where they saw something.
And I think for me that's
the adventure of it.
That when somebody
tells you they've
seen a thunderbird
in the sky or that it
tried to attack
somebody, you really
get a feel of being
there on location
that you can see what
they're dealing with.
And for me that's the most fun
is travelling to these places,
not only interviewing witnesses,
but collecting the folklore
along the way.
>>NOORY: Are they willing to
tell you, Chad, what they've
seen, what they've heard?
>>LEWIS: Most people
are, especially people
that have had something
that has changed their life.
A lot of people say
to me now, I don't
believe in the
strange and unusual,
but this is what happened to me.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>LEWIS: And a lot of
time they're very relieved
to talk to somebody
who will believe them
or that won't think
they're crazy,
because I've had
people tell me stories
that they've kept to
themselves for 40 years in fear
that nobody would believe them.
So I think for a lot
of people it's a relief
to get this out
there, the experience
that they can't explain.
>>NOORY: Has anybody ever
broken down in front of you
and just started sobbing?
>>LEWIS: I've had
many people that
have lost it in front of me.
Because it was an
emotional thing for them,
whether they were terrified
to death by the creature
they were seeing.
And that's one of
the strange elements
to the monster sightings is
that most of the witnesses I've
reported seem to have an
irrational fear when they're
around these creatures.
That they may be in the safety
of their vehicle or their home,
but they feel as though if
they don't get out of the area
they're going to be
harmed by these monsters.
And oftentimes when they
do drive off in a hurry,
they get home, they relax,
they feel a little foolish
and embarrassed about
getting so frightened.
But there's something
about that moment--
>>NOORY: Something in there.
>>LEWIS: --where they feel that
their life may be in danger.
>>NOORY: Let's talk about
some of these images
that you brought to us, Chad.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, the
Van Meter visitor.
Back in 1903 a small
rural town in Iowa
was terrorized for five nights
by this giant eight foot
bat-like creature,
that appeared,
that they thought was coming
from an old abandoned coal
mine.
>>NOORY: And that's what
we're looking at on the screen
right now.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
Based on witness
descriptions of that time,
it was eight foot tall, it
had giant leather-like wings,
it had a horn protruding
from its head,
and it was able to
shoot a light off.
And that's where
people first saw it.
They thought it was a
robber, an intruder,
with a light dancing
over a building.
But as the days
went on in the week,
people got a
close-up view of it.
They even shot at it.
They took deliberate
aim with buckshot
in their shotguns,
their pistols.
Dozens of people shot at
it but it had no effect.
And this creature,
whatever it was,
was able to release an odor
that erased the memory of many
of the witnesses.
So people always say that--
>>NOORY: How bizarre.
>>LEWIS: --this might
have been a hoax.
Well, if it was a hoax
in 1903, whoever devised
it was about 50 years
ahead of abduction research
that we know of.
You know, the missing
time, the faulty memories,
the impervious to human weapons.
So this creature terrorized
the town for five nights.
They finally got
a posse together.
And this is rural
Iowa, 1,000 people,
most of them carrying weapons.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>LEWIS: They went out to
the old abandoned coal mine
and they watched this thing
just before daylight finally
come back to its grounds,
its lair, if you will.
>>NOORY: They all witnessed it.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
And at the end of
the fifth night
it had a smaller
version of itself,
whether it was a female--
>>NOORY: A baby.
>>LEWIS: --the gender
of the species.
Yeah, an offspring.
And they said they shot
at it so many times it
could have sunk the Spanish
fleet, but it had no affect.
These creatures just simply
descended into the coal mine
and disappeared.
What happened to them--
>>NOORY: Unbelieveable.
>>LEWIS: --we don't know.
>>NOORY: And we've never heard
about this creature since?
>>LEWIS: No.
And whether it went off to
become the Mothman of Point
Pleasant, West Virginia.
>>NOORY: Maybe.
Sounds similar.
>>LEWIS: The Jersey Devil.
We don't know.
These things just seem
to appear for moments
and then they're gone.
>>NOORY: Do you
believe the story?
>>LEWIS: I do.
When I first went there and I
dug up all the old newspaper
articles, I thought it was
going to be a fun case,
but very quick, it's
obviously a hoax.
And when I got there
I started seeing
that it was much deeper than
I ever could have imagined.
That most of the witnesses
were the most prominent men
in the community.
>>NOORY: Why would they lie?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
They had the reputation.
Back then, nobody's
going to want
to invest their money
with the town banker
if he's seeing eight
foot bats in the sky.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>LEWIS: So they put their
reputation on the line
for these stories.
And they continued
through the years.
People did not know the story.
It was kind of hidden,
almost forgotten.
But people would still go out
to that abandoned coal mine.
They thought it was haunted
because they would hear
noises and see shadowy figures.
And of course, they didn't
know the visitor story,
so they thought it was ghosts.
But now, as it turns
out, maybe they
were seeing these
creatures after all.
>>NOORY: Indeed.
Next one I want
you to talk about
is a creature called the duende.
What is that?
>>LEWIS: Down in Central
and South America,
the tata duende
comes in many forms.
But the most commonly
reported idea of it
is that it's a diminutive
man-type creature.
>>NOORY: Funny head.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
Funny head.
Oftentimes will appear
with the sombrero.
>>NOORY: How big?
>>LEWIS: Somewhere between three
and 1/2 and four feet tall.
>>NOORY: The man
or the sombrero?
>>LEWIS: The sombrero's very
big, the man's diminutive.
Some say its feet are
positioned backwards so
you can't track it.
Others say it's
missing its thumb,
so when you go
looking for it, you
have to tuck your thumbs
in case it sees you.
It will try to rip your thumb--
>>NOORY: Really:
>>LEWIS: --completely off.
Now, I was approaching
it as mostly folklore,
that these stories
have continued on.
And I was in a big jungle area--
what we would have a National
Forest here in the US.
I was in the country
of Belize, and I
went up to one of
the forestry workers
and explained that I was looking
for stories of the duende.
I'd had sightings in that area.
And he looked at me
as though I was crazy.
He said, you shouldn't go
looking for the duende.
That is dangerous.
>>NOORY: And he
was dead serious.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
And then it turns out
just talking with him,
he had a story from
when he was a child
playing in his back yard,
when all of a sudden
he saw on the edge of the forest
the duende creature standing
there.
And he said it was singing
a lullaby or a song.
>>NOORY: It sounds
like a leprechaun.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, almost like
the gnomes, the fairy folk,
the wee folk.
And he said he was
in a trance and he
started walking
toward this duende
with this beautiful music,
when all of a sudden
his mother yelled for him
to come home for lunch.
And he said he snapped
out of it like that--
>>NOORY: And back he went.
>>LEWIS: --broke down
crying and ran back home.
And he said he was
saved from the duende.
>>NOORY: What do these
duendes try to do to people?
>>LEWIS: Well, most
people think they're
protectors of the jungle.
That they're out there-- as
long as you're not harming
the environment you're safe.
>>NOORY: You're OK, yeah.
>>LEWIS: But others say it
will bring you back to its cave
and you'll never
be seen from again.
And there are more sinister
aspects that it will take--
>>NOORY: Are they cannibals?
>>LEWIS: --your life.
Yeah.
Maybe even consume you, take
your sight, your hearing.
Very similar to the fairy or
wee folk or goblins or gnomes.
>>NOORY: Are we still
getting, Chad, a lot
of these reports of the duende?
>>LEWIS: When I was
in Central America,
especially in the
rural areas, people
still feared these creatures.
That they said, you better
be back before nightfall,
because if you're not
back to the village
before the sun goes down, you
may encounter these creatures.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
And they feared it.
They really did.
When you looked
into their eyes you
can see that they not
only believed this,
but it was part of their
daily life to avoid it.
>>NOORY: Well, beyond
just the artistic sketch,
do we have any real
photographs of these things?
>>LEWIS: We don't
have any photos.
And many of the witnesses
I've spoken with
claim that when they
saw it, it didn't even
occur to them to take a photo.
They may have had a camera or
their cell phone with them,
but they were so terrified
that they were just
looking at the
creature, making sure
that it wasn't
coming toward them,
and they wanted to
get out of the area.
Because many countries,
that's the view
that you do not go
looking for these things.
You don't even
call out for them,
because the mere
mention of their name
will put you on
their radar and they
can come searching for you.
>>NOORY: Hellhounds.
What kind of creatures
are we talking about here?
>>LEWIS: Hellhounds, or
devil dogs as they're known,
are giant black dogs often shown
with glowing red or green eyes.
>>NOORY: We've seen those.
>>LEWIS: Sometimes
they're transparent.
But they're very
big, heavily muscled.
>>NOORY: Sounds like a panther.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
But even bigger.
And most people that see
them believe that they're
doing the devil's bidding.
Most cultures believe that
they had supernatural powers.
I spoke with one guy who
saw it at a boat landing.
And he was a big
burly biker guy,
type of guy you wouldn't think
would get spooked by anything.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>LEWIS: He's the kind of
guy that scares people.
And he broke down
crying telling me
that when he got to this boat
landing on his motorcycle,
him and his buddy saw several
of these large black hellhounds.
And he said they were
nearly transparent,
their eyes were glowing.
And he said they were
terrified and they took off.
And what frightened him the most
is that these creatures could
keep up with them, no
matter how fast they
went on their motorcycle--
>>NOORY: They came at him.
>>LEWIS: Came at him.
And it wasn't until he
went to kick one of them
and his big biker boot went
right through the creature
that the creature
finally disappeared.
And he said he kept driving.
They were so frightened they
kept driving for the next 40
minutes to the nearest town.
>>NOORY: So they're dimensional?
>>LEWIS: Yeah, it seems
to be because they often
appear in areas that
you wouldn't think
would have enough room
for them to inhabit.
That if they were there
physical, flesh and blood,
that it wouldn't be enough room.
You could see them.
But they often
appear in places that
have other paranormal
activity associated with it.
That it may be a haunted area or
a place that has a curse on it.
And I don't know if they're
attracted to this area
or they're part of
it, but they seem
to come and go as they please.
>>NOORY: Has anybody
ever reported
that they've been bitten
by one of these things
or that they witnessed
somebody being pulled away?
>>LEWIS: Not
physically attacked.
More psychologically or
spiritually attacked.
Down in Central America
and South America
where there are more
stories of these--
>>NOORY: They've got a lot
of weird stories down there.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
And the villagers said that if
you saw one of these hellhounds
or devil dogs-- they call them
Cadejos, that if they saw you
they could connect with
you and they would steal
your energy little by little,
and unless you could find
a powerful shaman
or a bush doctor,
you'd be dead within a
week of seeing these.
>>NOORY: Are they
harbingers, Chad,
of something evil
about to occur?
>>LEWIS: Yeah, they seem to be
much like what you would think
of the Irish banshee
or the Wendigo
that these-- they appear
before something bad happens.
And many witnesses
that have seen
them will tell me bad things
happened to them afterwards.
They're involved in
a minor car accident,
they broke up with
their significant other,
fired from their employment.
Always mishaps, misfortune,
or even death that
occurs after seeing
these creatures.
>>NOORY: Lots of interest
in the creature we all
know as Bigfoot or Sasquatch.
We get reports from
all over the country,
from legitimate people
about these creatures.
What have your
investigations uncovered?
>>LEWIS: For Bigfoot, or the
Yowie, the Yeti, the Sasquatch,
the abominable
snowman, these giant
bipeds walking upright on their
hind legs like you and I do.
Most people that see them are
split into a couple categories.
One is that they're a flesh and
blood undiscovered creature,
like running into a grizzly
bear out in the woods.
>>NOORY: They're
very smelly, too.
>>LEWIS: Yes they have
a distinct odor to them.
Many witnesses that's the
first thing they notice
is that all of a sudden an
odor comes into the area.
>>NOORY: Permeates, yeah.
>>LEWIS: Yes.
And then they see the creature.
But even on the flip
side, I get witnesses
who believe it's more of
a supernatural creature,
maybe it's interdimension
or ultraterrestrial,
that it's not flesh and blood.
That it moves at no speed
any known animal can.
And it seems to come in and out
of places at its will, which
may be one of the
reasons why we've never
found the carcass of
one of these creatures.
That these creatures
are said to exist,
but maybe not on our dimension.
>>NOORY: How big are they?
>>LEWIS: Well,
most of the report
seem to be somewhere between
six and nine, 10 feet tall.
350 to 500 pounds with this
thick dark matted-down fur.
Rarely have I received
reports of a smaller creature.
>>NOORY: People are
seeing something.
>>LEWIS: Yes.
>>NOORY: I don't
know what it is,
but they're seeing something.
>>LEWIS: And of course,
I've had hunters
that have told me while they're
out hunting in the North Woods,
they had these creatures
in their sight.
And they were about
to pull the trigger,
but they thought to themselves,
what if it's a hoax?
I could get in a lot of trouble.
>>NOORY: Actually, you
won't get into trouble.
>>LEWIS: Really?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
It has been determined that
if somebody is running around
in a Bigfoot costume and
you take a shot at it,
you won't get
arrested or indicted
for something like that
because you don't know.
>>LEWIS: Sure.
>>NOORY: You feared
for your life
with some idiot who is
dressing up like a Bigfoot.
There was one several months
ago who ran across the road
and got hit by a
car and got killed.
>>LEWIS: And a
lot of these areas
where the Bigfoot creatures are
seen, most people would say you
would never go dressed up
as a Bigfoot in this area.
This is hunting area.
>>NOORY: No.
That's stupid.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
People carry weapons.
They'll shoot you
without hesitating.
So I don't know if there's
anyone ever been found
to dehoax some of these cases.
>>NOORY: On "Coast to Coast"
I interviewed a group of guys
who are Bigfoot hunters.
They go out looking for Bigfoot.
And I'm opposed to that.
I think if we find
a creature like this
we should try to preserve it.
Maybe capture and study it
for science, but not kill it.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, and
maybe a limited
or even the last of
its kind, that we
don't know how many of these
creatures are out there.
>>NOORY: Who knows?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
I'm with you there,
George, that I
think it should be
trapped and studied,
or some people say
leave it alone.
I've had many witnesses
who have encountered it
and then they just
kind of walked away,
that they didn't want to
get close or avoid it,
much like you might do
with an endangered species.
>>NOORY: One of my favorite
creatures, sea creatures,
sea serpents.
What have you uncovered there?
>>LEWIS: My favorite as well.
Sea serpent.
>>NOORY: That's it.
>>LEWIS: Around the
world, Loch Ness--
I've been on two
expeditions to Loch Ness.
My home state of Wisconsin, back
in the late 1800s, early 1900s,
we had two dozen lakes,
rivers, and streams
that claimed to be inhabited
by giant sea serpent monsters.
>>NOORY: There's Champy
out there, right?
>>LEWIS: Yeah, Lake
Champlain has Champ.
In Salt Lake City, Minnesota
on the Mississippi River
they have the Lake
Peppin, and they
have accounts from
Native Americans
that first settled the
area, that they would only
go into the lake with
their sturdiest canoes
because they felt that
anytime someone drowned
or went missing, it was blamed
on this creature called Pepie.
When the white
pioneers moved in,
they started writing about it
in their newspaper accounts.
And now, the people of Minnesota
have offered a $50,000 reward--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>LEWIS: --for the
capture of Pepie.
But you can't hurt
it in the process.
>>NOORY: Let's go
look for Pepie, huh?
>>LEWIS: I've been on
several expeditions.
We had sonar, underwater
cameras, fishing equipment,
we even jumped in
using ourself as bait.
And unfortunately, or
maybe luckily for me,
Pepie didn't attack me.
>>NOORY: When you were out at
the Loch, did you see anything?
>>LEWIS: When I was there-- I've
been on two expeditions there.
My first expedition
it took a while
for the rolling waves or the
ducks that would come in.
From a distance it would look
like something out of the norm.
But when you got
closer you could
see that it was ducks
or a wake or a wave.
The second time I
was there, I actually
had more UFO reports from
people than sea serpent reports.
And Loch Ness is
huge-- 22 miles long,
couple miles wide, 700 feet
deep, and it's freezing cold.
I'm from the Midwest,
I'm used to cold rivers.
But when I put my feet
in Loch Ness, it--
>>NOORY: That's cold.
>>LEWIS: --was like
stabbing into them.
And you can't see very well, so
it's perfect area for something
to hide undetected.
>>NOORY: Chad, let's
talk a little bit
about the thunderbirds-- you
had mentioned them earlier.
There was an incredible
story out of Illinois
where a thunderbird swooped
down and was picking up
a little boy, and the mother
came running out with a broom,
swatting at this
huge bird, and it
dropped the kid--
he wasn't too far
off the ground at that
time-- and saved his life.
One, what a frightening-- just
to see your little kid being
flown away.
You know, oh, god.
And what was the bird
going to do with the kid?
Drop him down in his
huge nest and feed
his little thunderbirds?
>>LEWIS: Exactly.
I actually spoke
with the mother,
and she told me that
when she was hitting it
she grabbed onto the bird, or
grabbed onto her son's legs
because it was being lifted
off the ground, the boy was.
And she told me that
when she was hitting it,
if she went to
grab the child, she
thought it could have
easily just taken it away
and she may never have
seen her child again.
But your question there
is very important.
What purpose?
Was it just looking for
food and it didn't differ
from a fox versus a kid--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>LEWIS: --or was
it something else?
>>NOORY: Because they picked
up little animals before too,
haven't they?
>>LEWIS: Yes.
>>NOORY: And they're flown up.
What kind of descriptions to
we get with the thunderbird?
>>LEWIS: thunderbird vary.
One is just what you would
think of a giant bird,
but bigger than anything
we've ever seen.
>>NOORY: Cessna size.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
They're talking small
planes of 30 foot wing span.
And what I found interesting
is that many stories
that see these creatures
on the ground report
that sometimes they won't
even flap their wings,
that they can just extend
their wings and then fly off.
>>NOORY: And just glide away.
>>LEWIS: Very similar to Mothman
stories, that many people
didn't see them flapping their
wings, but they could fly.
And most of the time
people see these
and they can't quite
believe what they're
seeing because they know there
should be no bird that size,
but yet it's right
there in front of them.
>>NOORY: Are you getting
pterodactyl stories, too?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
Many people believe that
the Van Meter visitor
may have been a pterodactyl.
And many people--
>>NOORY: Well, you know, it's a
good point, because the picture
you showed us, it looks
like it could be one.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, and it had
all the trademarks of it.
The wings, the leathery
skin, the claws.
But again, people say there
can't be dinosaurs still
around here.
>>NOORY: Who knows?
>>LEWIS: I know.
So that's the fun
of it is seeing
how not only these
stories originate,
but how they progress
over the years,
that sometimes a folklore
may start off as one thing,
but then blossom into
something completely different.
>>NOORY: What about
werewolves and vampires,
do you investigate them?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
I spend time over in
Transylvania and Romania
hunting--
>>NOORY: You're everywhere.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
Hunting vampire lore.
And over there, I love the way
they viewed their vampires.
They didn't view them like we
do here in the United States
or at least the mass media
of these supermodels that
twitter and twinkle in the sky.
They believe them
as hideous monsters,
almost a combination
of what we consider
a vampire, a zombie, and a
ghost all rolled into one.
That these people come out
of the grave-- I say people--
and they're still in their
burial clothing, ripped up,
shredded, they're hideous
looking, they're foul smelling.
And they often
don't communicate.
They're just hellbent
on seeking revenge.
So many culture,
especially in Romania,
that they would actually
stake-- modern times-- stake
their loved ones into the
ground when they were dead,
literally, so they
couldn't rise up.
And when I was in rural
areas of Transylvania, which
is a big county
in Romania, people
took it even to more extremes
that they would cut off
the head of their loved
one, bury it separately
from the body.
And before I went there I had
heard accounts of local areas
that they would
create their dead,
take those created
remains and grind them up
into a fine powder, and
they would make a soup out
of that powder, and the
entire community would consume
the soup, thereby spreading
out the power of that person
so they couldn't come
back and terrorize you.
>>NOORY: What about voodoo.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, voodoo.
When I was down in New
Orleans, of course,
voodoo runs rampant down there.
And being with my
background in psychology,
I'm looking at how belief
systems, infer belief,
that if you believe
something's going to happen,
is it more likely to happen?
Believe or cursed, are we more
likely to have something bad
happen?
>>NOORY: And we
develop this ourselves.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
And either way it seems
to work, whether it's
something supernatural to it,
or if it's just us creating it,
it seems to work.
I spoke with so many people
that would think nothing of it
to go to a shaman or a bush
doctor, or a voodoo or hoodoo
practitioner and look
for a love spell,
or that they believed
they were cursed,
they needed somebody
as protection.
They needed something.
So that's a belief
that much of the world
has that here in the US
we don't often believe
in such percentages as they do.
>>NOORY: Of everything
you've investigated
with creatures, what has
been the most fascinating one
for you?
>>LEWIS: I like to werewolves.
A good friend and colleague
of mine, Linda Godfrey--
>>NOORY: I know Linda well.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
She's been on your "Coast
to Coast" several times.
And Linda first started getting
reports of people in Wisconsin
on a small rural stretch
of road that saw,
for lack of a better
term, a werewolf.
They said it was
the size of a bear,
but shaped more like a
wolf with a long muzzle,
and that dark fur, and
that it was a biped.
And it was often seen on the
side of the road late at night,
but not always.
The good news for
me is that most
of the reports I
get from witnesses
say that the creature didn't
charge them or attack them.
That it almost seemed
to be more comfortable
hiding in the shadows to
get back and be unobserved.
>>NOORY: It didn't
want to take somebody.
>>LEWIS: Yes.
It wasn't looking for kill,
because many times people
have seen it eating roadkill
or freshly killed prey.
And I love stories like
that, the werewolf,
because they shouldn't be here.
By all accounts, we should not
be getting reports of a wolf,
but yet we are.
>>NOORY: Are they
part human, part wolf?
>>LEWIS: Many people believe
they're shapeshifters,
that they can
transform themselves
at will from a human or
another animal into a wolf.
Others believe there's some
sort of canine that just
haven't been discovered yet.
That they maybe broke off
from traditional wolves
in that they walk upright.
And they've been reported
all over the world,
and now we're getting
more reports of werewolves
than ever before.
>>NOORY: Would you be
frightened if you saw a werewolf
up front and personal?
>>LEWIS: Of course.
I always say when you
go to these places,
if you're not getting scared,
you're not trying hard enough.
>>NOORY: They walk on all
twos, too, don't they?
>>LEWIS: They're
upright, they're fast.
Many of these creatures seem
to exhibit supernatural powers,
that they move at
speeds that are much
greater than us humans can do.
>>NOORY: I'd freak out
looking at a wolf chasing you
on two feet.
>>LEWIS: And there are legends
of how you can defend yourself
against these creatures,
but for the most part,
we don't know how to
kill them, especially
if they're not flesh and blood.
>>NOORY: Because we don't all
have silver bullets either.
>>LEWIS: And most
of us don't carry
around silver bullets
or iron or hot tallow,
as some kill the Wendigo with.
So you don't have these
weapons at your disposal.
So most people would
turn around and run.
So for me, even not even
seeing some of these creatures,
just being in areas where
they've been sighted
is enough to really make it
a creepy and unforgettable
experience.
>>NOORY: These myths of
these creatures, Chad,
which go back way, way
back, were they stories
or were they real?
>>LEWIS: Well, that's
the great question.
Did people make these up and
then these creatures started
to appear, or did
they appear and we
started telling the stories?
I think people have
always seen them.
When the people came to this
country from the old countries,
they brought all of
their legends with them.
>>NOORY: They may have brought
the creatures with them, too--
>>LEWIS: Many people--
>>NOORY: --on the ships.
>>LEWIS: --the Irish
banshee, of course,
the Irish banshee is a spirit
that would often attach itself
to a family for generations,
and it was also--
>>NOORY: Wherever they went.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, a
harbinger of death.
That if you saw or
heard this banshee,
the cry of the banshee, you or
someone within the community
was going to die.
>>NOORY: It's like a cackle.
>>LEWIS: Yes.
And when the Irish people
came here and others,
it was said the
banshees came with them.
So not only did
they bring legends,
they may have brought
the creatures, too.
>>NOORY: Chad, people want
information on what you do.
How do they find you?
>>LEWIS: Sure.
Website,
unexplainedresearch.com.
>>NOORY: What creature do you
not want to be confronted by?
>>LEWIS: I do not want to
see an extraterrestrial being
of some sort.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>LEWIS: I would
love to see it--
>>NOORY: Even if it's
a friendly looking
gray with the big almond
eyes and the big head?
You don't want to see them, huh?
>>LEWIS: Well, most of the
abductees I've spoken with,
and I know you have as
well, that for some of them,
it's a terrifying aspect.
>>NOORY: True.
>>LEWIS: And that if
these creatures are here,
they seem to be ahead
of us in technology,
so what they're capable
of doing, I don't know.
I'd rather stick to
the sea serpents.
But I wouldn't
deny it if someone
said you want to see
a gray, if you will?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>LEWIS: But it's probably
not high on my list.
>>NOORY: Of every
creature we've just
talked about on this
program, which one do
you think is the most possible?
>>LEWIS: For me,
it's sea serpents,
that we have such
undiscovered area.
And there's no better place to
hide than water because we're
not in it very much.
So I believe that there
could be these creatures that
have continued on
that are not extinct,
or that have gone unidentified
over all the decades.
>>NOORY: Chad, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>LEWIS: Keep an
eye out, George.
>>NOORY: Appreciate it.
Creatures, they
could be everywhere.
Bigfoot, Sasquatch, the Duende,
the thunderbirds coming down
to swoop down and pick you up.
If they do, run.
I'm George Noory, and this
has been "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]